procedures: starting a new workspace (#2227)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/user-guide/pages/starting-a-new-workspace-with-a-clone-of-a-git-repository.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
:description: Starting a new workspace with a clone of a Git repository
:keywords: start-new-workspace, start-a-new-workspace, how-to-start-new-workspace, how-to-start-a-new-workspace, starting-a-new-workspace, clone-git-repository, clone-a-git-repository, how-to-start-workspace, how-to-start-a-workspace
:navtitle: Starting a new workspace with a clone of a Git repository
// :page-aliases:

[id="starting-a-new-workspace-with-a-clone-of-a-git-repository_{context}"]
= Starting a new workspace with a clone of a Git repository

> With {prod-short}, you can start a new workspace that contains a clone of a Git repository. So you can have your remote origin or fork cloned into a new starting workspace. Or you can have a common repository of a project cloned into a new starting workspace. With such Git providers as GitHub and GitLab, you can also specify the branch for the new starting workspace to checkout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With {prod-short}, you can start a new workspace that contains a clone of a Git repository. You can have your remote origin or fork cloned into a new starting workspace. You can also have a common repository of a project cloned into a new starting workspace. With Git providers such as GitHub and GitLab, you can also specify the branch for the new starting workspace to checkout.
```

> With {prod-short}, you can start a new workspace that contains a clone of a Git repository. So you can have your remote origin or fork cloned into a new starting workspace. Or you can have a common repository of a project cloned into a new starting workspace. With such Git providers as GitHub and GitLab, you can also specify the branch for the new starting workspace to checkout.

Reviewer: The {prod-short} variable is not populated with the correct value.

TIP: Advanced users can compose and use their own devfiles, as well as use a local devfile.
//provide links on "compose", "devfiles", and "local devfile" to the corresponding sections in Advanced Use (User Guide). max-cx

IMPORTANT: Although the devfile enables full functionality of a workspace, you can also start a new workspace by supplying the URL of a Git repository without a devfile. This results in a new workspace with a clone of the Git repository and with the defaults such as the Che-Theia IDE and the Universal Developer Image.
//provide xrefs to a concept module about the Universal Developer Image and, if applicable, devfile-less defaults for new workspaces. max-cx

> NOTE: The *Create Workspace* page of your {prod-short} xref:url-of-your-che-dashboard.adoc[dashboard] has the *Git Repo URL ** field as the GUI alternative for entering the URL of a Git repository to start a new workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The *Create Workspace* page of your {prod-short} xref:url-of-your-che-dashboard.adoc[dashboard] has the **Git Repo URL** field as the GUI alternative for entering the URL of a Git repository to start a new workspace.
```

.Prerequisites

* Your organization has a running instance of {prod-short}.

> * You have been given the xref:url-of-your-organizations-che-instance.adoc[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You are provided with the xref:url-of-your-organizations-che-instance.adoc[].
```

* Your Git repository maintainer keeps the `devfile.yaml` or `.devfile.yaml` file in the root directory of the Git repository.

> * Optional: Private repositories that are hosted on GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket require (1) an authorized application link to be created on the repository-hosting website by the repository maintainer (which is you for your fork) and (2) a {platforms-name} secret to be applied by the administrator of the {prod-short} instance that belongs to your organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Optional: Private repositories that are hosted on GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket require:
- An authorized application link to be created on the repository-hosting website by the repository maintainer (which is you for your fork) and
- A {platforms-name} secret to be applied by the administrator of the {prod-short} instance that belongs to your organization.

```

//two inline links to be added into this par in the next, separate PR. max-cx

.Procedure

> . Optional: visit the xref:url-of-your-che-dashboard.adoc[] to log in as a {prod-short} user to your organization's instance of {prod-short}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Optional: Visit the xref:url-of-your-che-dashboard.adoc[] to log in as a {prod-short} user to your organization's instance of {prod-short}.
```
